## Welcome To The Project

<iframe src="https://maize-test3.herokuapp.com" height="500" width="90%" frameBorder="0"></iframe>

## How is maize adaptation to future environments influenced by climate change

My research focuses on modeling the type of genomic change required for plant adaptation to keep up future environments under models of changing climates.
Naturally, one major component of this work is understanding how environmental adaptation is distributed within and among genomes.
I have a much more in depth study of that for maize landraces available [here](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/706739v1.abstract).
In order to model the current distribution of adaptation in maize landraces, I use a random forest machine learning approach to model how alleles are distributed between current populations under contemporary environments.
From these models we can replace contemporary climates with estimates of what future climates will look like in order to measure how much genomic change would need to take place for plants to maintain their current levels of environmental adaptation.


In dealing with estimates of future climates there are three major considerations.
The first is what we refer to as the pathway.
The pathway represents an estimate of how much emissions are being generated by the global populations.
These range from ssp126 which is the best case scenario where global emissions are cut drastically to ssp585 which is the worst case scenario where future emissions are greatly increased.
The second important climate consideration is institute.
Under the most widely accepted climate modeling standards, the Coupled Model Intercomparison Project (CMIP), different institutions independently develop models and then compare their models under a variety of different experimental scenarios in order to optimize their model accuracy.
Future climate estimates can vary between pathway, time, and region of the globe based upon institute that conducts the simulation.
Institutes therefore offer a valuable estimate of uncertainty around future climate modeling projects.
The final consideration around future climate simulations is time.
Naturally, time periods that are closer to the present should have more reliable estimates since they are more similar to environments that the simulation models were built and trained upon.
Thus, estimates in the distant future are likely show greater disagreements between pathway and institution models.

In my research I address the expectations of future genomic changes in a reporting scheme intended to allow inferences to be made about the shape and rate of changes genomic change both between and within the three major climate simulation considerations.
This first visualization gives the clearest overview and allows for the clearest comparisons between time, institutes, and pathways.
Here the Y-axis is Fst (a measure of overall genomic difference) between all the historical genomes vs all the individual genomes that would be adapted to a particular future climate simulation.
The x-axis here represents increasing time in the future, and the line color and line type represent different pathways and institutes.
As a way of providing a better visualization of individual level variation I also plot the principal components of individual genomes in both their historical and future environments.
These plots are conducted one by one for time, pathway, and institute.
The points represent individual genomes and the color represents whether they are adapted to historical or future environments.
The x and y axes represent the first two principal components which are a summary of the individuals genomic composition (e.g. similar genomes should be located near one another in this plot).
Finally, we know that maize has adapted to different elevations where it is grown at but one thing we are interested in whether in the impacts of climate change will fall evenly or disproportionately on specific elevational classes.
Here the x axis indicates the elevational class that individuals are from and the y-axis represents the difference in relatedness between an individuals' historical genotype and the genotype that would be adapted to a future scenario.
Finally, I have made these results available in a dashboard that allows users to toggle pathway and institute with the top dropdowns and time using the slider below the principal component plot.



### Interactive Dashboard


